---
title: >
  Why write custom assertions in your tests?
pubDate: 2023-07-03
permalink: >
  archive/2023/07/03/why-write-custom-assertions-in-your-tests
tags:
  - automated-testing
---

I'm refactoring some code on a client project - creating a Repository class to centralise some logic before implementing the next feature.

The repository class is responsible for finding and returning any nodes with a specified field value and some base conditions (it must be the correct node type, published, etc.).

## Adding a custom assertion

I'm using PHPUnit's native assertions to check it returns a Collection (I regularly include the `illuminate/collections` library from Laravel in other projects) and that each item is an instance of a `NodeInterface`, but there isn't an assertion to check each node is of the correct type.

My initial implementation was to loop over each node and use `assertSame` on its bundle before refactoring to create an array of unique bundle names and comparing it to my expected names:

```php
self::assertSame(
  expected: [$nodeType],
  actual: $haystack
    ->map(fn (NodeInterface $item): string => $item->bundle())
    ->unique()
    ->toArray(),
);
```

## Why write a custom assertion?

Whilst this works, it likely won't be clear in the future what it's testing.

My initial thought was to add a comment describing it, but then I decided to wrap it in a custom assertion - `assertContainsOnlyNodesOfType` - a private static function within my test class that wraps the native assertions.

This approach makes the test more readable now and in the future and more domain-focused by giving it a descriptive name.

It can be easily reused within the same test case or elsewhere.

Although I only perform one assertion in this case, I can combine multiple assertions and perform any other required steps.

Finally, I can contain any implementation details within the custom assertion. Here, I'm matching the result against an array of expected values, not just a single node type which is what I want. This detail can be contained within the assertion, making it easier to read and reuse in the future.
