---
title: 'ATDC: Lesson 0 - Introduction'
permalink: /atdc/0-introduction
---

{% block head_meta %}
<meta name="robots" content="noindex">
{% endblock %}

{% block content %}
Thank you for registering for this free email course on automated testing in Drupal.

Over the next week, you'll receive a lesson a day by email and go from nothing to a working Drupal application with a PHPUnit-powered test suite.

We'll look at the different types of tests and how to use automated testing and test-driven development to develop a Drupal module from scratch.

## Questions, issues or feedback

Every email is sent from my personal email address, so if you have issues, questions, wins or feedback, press reply, and I'll personally respond.

## Local environment

You'll need a local version of Drupal running to run the commands in the upcoming lessons.

If you need one, I have a [Drupal 10 with Docker example project](https://github.com/opdavies/docker-example-drupal) you can use.

If you use something else, like Lando or DDEV, you may need to make minor tweaks to configure PHPUnit to work. If you need assistance, let me know, and I'll update the lesson for future subscribers.

Tomorrow's lesson has instructions on how to use Composer to create a new Drupal project, but if you can and want to be ready, go ahead and set up a new site.

When you can see the Drupal installation page that says "Choose language", you're ready to go.

## Resources

I also have a [Drupal module template](https://github.com/opdavies/drupal-module-template) you can refer to.

In the meantime, why not sign up for my [daily software development emails](https://www.oliverdavies.uk/daily)? They're also free, and you can unsubscribe at any time.
{% endblock %}
