---
title: Create Virtual Hosts on Mac OS X Using VirtualHostX
date: 2010-07-02
excerpt:
  How to use the VirtualHostX application to manage virtual hosts on Mac OS X.
tags:
  - drupal-planet
  - drupal-6
  - mamp
  - virtual-hosts
  - virtualhostx
---

This isn't a Drupal related topic per se, but it is a walk-through of one of the
applications that I use whilst doing Drupal development work. I assume, like
most Mac OS X users, I use [MAMP](http://www.mamp.info/en/index.html) to run
Apache, MySQL and PHP locally whilst developing. I also use virtual hosts in
Apache to create local .dev domains which are as close as possible to the actual
live domains. For example, if I was developing a site called mysite.com, my
local development version would be mysite.dev.

Normally, I would have to edit the hosts file and Apache's httpd.conf file to
create a virtual host. The first to set the domain and it's associated IP
address, and the other to configure the domain's directory, default index file
etc. However, using [VirtualHostX](http://clickontyler.com/virtualhostx), I can
quickly create a virtual host without having to edt any files. Enter the virtual
domain name, the local path and the port, and apply the settings. VirtualHostX
automatically restarts Apache, so the domain is ready to work straight away. You
can also enter custom directives from within the GUI.

There's also an option to share the host over the local network. Next, I intend
on configuring a virtual Windows PC within VMware Fusion to view these domains
so that I can do cross-browser testing before putting a site live.

I ensured that my Apache configuration within MAMP was set to port 80, and that
VirtualHostX was using Apache from MAMP instead of Apple's built-in Apache.

**Note:** One problem that I had after setting this up, was that I was receving
an error when attempting to open a Drupal website which said _'No such file or
directory'._

After some troubleshooting, I found out that Web Sharing on my Mac had become
enabled (I don't know why, I've never enabled it), and that this was causing a
conflict with Apache. Once I opened my System Preferences and disabled it,
everything worked fine!

This, along with [MAMP](http://www.mamp.info/en/index.html),
[Coda](http://www.panic.com/coda), [Sequel Pro](http://www.sequelpro.com), and
[Transmit](http://www.panic.com/transmit), has become an essential tool within
my development environment.
