---
title: >
  How and why I started using PostCSS
pubDate: 2022-12-09
permalink: >-
  archive/2022/12/09/how-and-why-i-started-using-postcss
tags:
  - css
  - front-end
---

I assume that, like many other Developers, when I started learning front-end development, I wrote normal, plain CSS and later discovered and adopted pre-processors like Less and Sass that added features such as variables and nesting to my stylesheets.

This was the case when I first saw what became Tailwind CSS, which were some stylesheets written in Less and ported manually between projects.

I remember watching one of those streams, and a fellow viewer suggested PostCSS, which Tailwind CSS would later be written in.

PostCSS, a CSS post-processor rather than a pre-processor, has become my preferred way of writing CSS because of Tailwind.

When I started using Tailwind in my projects, I was layering it on top of another CSS framework or styles that were written using Less or Sass, so I needed to pre-process them into CSS first and then run PostCSS - essentially running two build steps and adding to the build time.

I moved to use PostCSS by default - removing one of the build steps.

What I liked about it, as well as the quicker build times, was that I could start with plain CSS and add the extra features I needed. I didn't use all of Sass and Less' features, and now, if I needed nesting or real-time imports, I could add it via a PostCSS plugin or write my own.

It's also quick and easy to use, using the PostCSS CLI tool and without more complex tools like Webpack.

If you haven't tried PostCSS, I recommend taking a look.
