---
title: >
  Should you upgrade from Drupal 7 to Drupal 10?
pubDate: 2023-06-19
permalink: >-
  daily/2023/06/19/should-you-upgrade-from-drupal-7-to-drupal-10
tags:
  - drupal
  - drupal-7
---

If you're stuck on Drupal 7, why should you upgrade to Drupal 10 instead of moving to another platform?

## Familarity

Although there is a new admin theme, it works in the same way as it did in earlier versions of Drupal, so it will be familiar to anyone who is used to using or developing in it.

And whilst there have been differences since Drupal 8, creating modules and themes should seem familiar too with similar concepts such as `.info` files (now `.info.yml` files), hooks, preprocess functions and templates.

## Code reuse

If you have existing custom modules, you should be able to reuse some of its code in newer versions of Drupal. It might need to be restructured or refactored and will depend on how tightly coupled your business logic is to your Drupal code, but if, for example, you have a custom module that creates a node programmatically, the same can be done in newer Drupal versions.

## Built-in migration tools

Whilst you do need to migrate your data from Drupal 7 into Drupal 10, the newer versions come with built-in migration tools that recreate your content types etc first as well as moving the data so you don't need to start from scratch.

## New versions of existing modules

Many modules and themes you use in Drupal 7 will either have equivalent versions for Drupal 10 or a nominated alternative (such as Field Collection to Paragraphs), so you don't need to look for a new solution if there's an updated version of something you already use.

## Conclusion

These are the initial things that I thought of, but there are many other reasons to upgrade to Drupal 10 instead of moving to something else.

TLDR - you don't need to start from scratch if you can re-use parts of your existing code, and you can use the built-in modules to handle the data migration.

If you have a reason, reply to let me know, and I'll post another list.
