---
title: >
    Work with me and support the Drupal Association
pubDate: 2023-10-27
permalink: >-
    archive/2023/10/27/work-with-me-and-support-the-drupal-association
tags:
    - drupal
    - open-source
    - php
    - phpc
---

I used to work for the [Drupal Association][association] - the non-profit organisation that supports the Drupal project, organises DrupalCon, and maintains Drupal.org.

I improved Drupal.org, fixed Drupal 8 release blockers, improved user profiles, helped make the Drupal.org theme responsive, and assisted with new websites like Drupal Events and Jobs.

At DrupalCon, one of the keynote speakers said, "The Drupal Association is a small but mighty team".

On the [Association staff page][staff], there are 15 staff members listed, including only five people in the Engineering team.

I've been in the Drupal community for a long time and worked for various companies that make money from Drupal - a free and open-source project.

However, it's "free as in puppies". You can have the puppy for free, but it costs time and money to look after it.

There are programs like the Supporting Partners program which provide funding to the DA, but, at least when I worked there, a large amount of income was from event revenue from DrupalCon.

## Here's the thing

As someone who works mainly on Drupal consulting and development projects, I'm pledging to commit a fixed percentage from my Drupal-related services and products to the Drupal Association, including my new [team coaching] service.

If the Association or Drupal weren't there, I wouldn't be able to provide those products and services, so it's in my interest to support the Drupal project and the Drupal Association. Maybe others will do the same.

**Work with me and support the Drupal Association.**

[association]: https://www.drupal.org/association
[staff]: https://www.drupal.org/association/staff
[team coaching]: {{site.url}}/team-coaching
