---
title: Why do people still use Git Flow?
date: 2024-02-25
permalink: daily/2024/02/25/why-do-people-still-use-git-flow
snippet: |
    Why do people still use Git Flow in 2024?
tags:
    - software-development
    - git
cta: d7eol
---

[The first conference talk I gave][talk] was at DrupalCamp London 2014.

The talk was about Git Flow - a popular branching scheme I was using to manage a project, where there are different branches for development and production versions of the software and separate branches for features, releases and hotfixes.

It's been a standard approach as I've worked on different projects and teams, usually with pull or merge requests and code reviews.

But why do people still use it?

I was conducting technical interviews recently and every candidate explained how they used Git Flow or something inspired by it, and GitHub and GitLab have their own simplified versions.

Vincent Driessen wrote the original Git Flow blog post in January 2010, though he updated it in March 2020 to add this note of reflection:

> This model was conceived in 2010, now more than 10 years ago, and not very long after Git itself came into being. In those 10 years, git-flow (the branching model laid out in this article) has become hugely popular in many a software team to the point where people have started treating it like a standard of sorts — but unfortunately also as a dogma or panacea.
>
> During those 10 years, Git itself has taken the world by a storm, and the most popular type of software that is being developed with Git is shifting more towards web apps — at least in my filter bubble. Web apps are typically continuously delivered, not rolled back, and you don't have to support multiple versions of the software running in the wild.
> 
> This is not the class of software that I had in mind when I wrote the blog post 10 years ago. If your team is doing continuous delivery of software, I would suggest to adopt a much simpler workflow (like GitHub flow) instead of trying to shoehorn git-flow into your team.
> 
> If, however, you are building software that is explicitly versioned, or if you need to support multiple versions of your software in the wild, then git-flow may still be as good of a fit to your team as it has been to people in the last 10 years. In that case, please read on.
> 
> To conclude, always remember that panaceas don't exist. Consider your own context. Don't be hating. Decide for yourself.

Since adopting trunk-based development and continuous integration and delivery, I've worked faster and avoided merge conflicts, which wasn't the case before, even when I was the only one working on a codebase.

It's a simpler workflow.

I don't need to think about whether this branch is a feature or a hotfix, and I've rarely seen release and hotfix branches used as described in the original blog post.

## Here's the thing

Do what works best for you and your team, but don't adopt something because it's the "standard" approach.

[talk]: {{site.url}}/talks/git-flow
