---
title: Write plain text files
date: 2024-11-10
permalink: daily/2024/11/10/write-plain-text-files
tags:
  - software-development
  - documentation
cta: ~
snippet: |
  I recently started writing all my notes in plain text files. Here's why.
---

I recently read a post by Derek Sivers about [why he only writes in plain text files][0].

I've been doing some digital cleanup and moved my notes from different online systems to plain text files.

The main advantages from Derek's post are:

- Portable: plain text files are easy to migrate between computers or store in the cloud and can be opened and edited anywhere.
- Uncommercial: you're not locked in to a proprietry or service-specific text format and not restricted by the number of notes you can have or have unwanted features pushed upon you.
- Offline: plain text files can be accessed offline if they're stored locally without needing to go via a website.
- No dependencies: you can edit plain text files in any editor and don't need to use heavy or bulky programs.
- Easy to convert: plain text can be converted into anything else.

I'd also add that plain text files are easy to search and grep to find content and can be version controlled and, in software projects, easily stored alongside the code it relates to.

This is why, although I work mostly with Drupal, I also like static site generators and use tools such as rst2pdf and Marp to develop presentation slides from plain text files.

From the conclusion of Derek's post:

> Reliable, flexible, portable, independent, and long-lasting. Plain text files will be readable by future generations, hundreds of years from now.
>
> I especially enjoy the tranquility of their offline, non-commercial nature. They’re quiet. They’re focused. (As I aim to be.)

[0]: https://sive.rs/plaintext
